JUDY WOODRUFF, PBS NEWSHOUR
ANCHOR: The technology
sector, and especially
the start-up culture
in Silicon Valley, has long been
criticized for its record on
diversity, gender and inclusion.
Now, the spotlight is
being shone a spotlight
on the investors and
funders in the valley.
Here's Hari Sreenivasan.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)
HARI SREENIVASAN, PBS NEWSHOUR
CORRESPONDENT: The scrutiny
has intensified in recent weeks
after two publications, "The
Information" and "The New York
Times," documented how prominent
venture capitalists had
been accused of making
unwanted sexual advances
through texts, phone
calls and physical intimidation.
These powerful investors used
their power to harass dozens
of women in whose companies
they might invest.
It led to the resignation of
Dave McClure, who was the CEO
of tech incubator, 500 Startups.
McClure apologized after he was
accused of harassment by other
women and wrote to a prospective
employee, quote, I was getting
confused figuring out whether
to hire you or hit on you.
Freada Kapor Klein is an
entrepreneur and leading voice
pushing companies to increase
culture and diversity.
Kapor Klein and her husband
invest in several startups,
including some funds run by 500
Startups.
She joins me now from Oakland.
So, Freada, you have been
working on this for decades.
Why are those two stories in the
past couple of weeks resonating?
FREADA KAPOR KLEIN, FOUNDER,
LEVEL PLAYING INSTITUTE: Well,
I think, finally, Silicon
Valley is willing to look at
itself and to recognize it
may be on the leading edge of
investing in tech.
It's certainly on the
trailing edge of dealing
with its own ecosystem,
diversity and inclusion
in particular.
SREENIVASAN: Why is it --
KAPOR KLEIN: Venture capital --
SREENIVASAN: Go ahead.
KAPOR KLEIN: Pardon?
I was going to say, venture
capital is now looking at
behaviors that it's engaging in
that were addressed on Wall
Street more than 20 years ago.
SREENIVASAN: there aren't
exactly any stats on this,
but how pervasive is it?
I mean, you've started projects
to include women and people
of color to try to foster
change in the pipeline and it's
important to point out that
this isn't just about gender.
This is also about race and
sexual orientation sometimes.
KAPOR KLEIN: Exactly, and I
think a term that's a bit bulky
but a very important concept,
what we see is
intersectionality,
meaning we can have
multiple identities.
It's important to point out
that the women who told their
stories to the information
about binary capital and the
women who came forward against
Dave McClure in the "New York
Times," all of those were
women of color, and talking
about unwelcome advances from
Caucasian men.
So, we need to look at that
racial dynamic as it's layered
in with the gender dynamic.
And you're absolutely right.
It's an abuse of power.
SREENIVASAN: One of the
interesting things people point
out about Uber is that there
were so many different
scandals where nothing
happened to the CEO really
until his big investors
signed a letter and
asked him to step down.
It seems that money
talks much louder here.
KAPOR KLEIN: Unfortunately,
money does talk much louder.
I think we've hit an era in
venture capital where greed is
everything and it, again, mimics
Wall Street in the 1990s where
greed is good was a commonplace
statement and, in fact,
in a commencement speech.
I think now we have to
look at is the only thing
that matters dollars?
Is it the dollars that get
invested in the entrepreneur?
Is it the, quote-unquote,
unicorn status meaning
the billion-dollar
evaluation of a startup?
And when are we going to expand
the ledger sheet to include
how people are treated, to
include how venture capital
and startups behave as citizens
of the communities and of the
country.
SREENIVASAN: So, how do you
change that dynamic for venture
funding that's all chasing those
unicorns, they all want to get
rich quick, they all want to
fund the right startup that's
going to make billions
and billions of dollars,
and it seems that
they're almost enabling
a culture that goes on because,
hey, it's all about profits?
KAPOR KLEIN: Well, I think
that's right, and I think there
are several groups that are
going to need to join
forces to make that change.
The venture capital
community itself has to
say, wait a second, we
aren't with the bottom
of the bottom here, and
we need to work to clean
up our own industry.
But we also need to see the
limited partners who invest
in these venture funds need to
start doing different kinds of
due diligence, different kinds
of demands about diversity
and inclusion in the venture
capital firm itself, in the
companies that are funded and
the values of the
startups that are created.
So, the limited partners
can create a lot of change.
The entrepreneurs
themselves, one of the
things we need to point
out is that venture capital
as currently constructed
is leaving billions of
dollars on the table
because they're overlooking
underrepresented entrepreneurs
who have great ideas and who
can serve real communities'
real needs.
SREENIVASAN: All right.
Freada Kapor Klein joining
us from Oakland tonight.
Thanks so much.
KLEIN: Thank you.